# Bingus Bot

A very clever kitty

Current features:

- [Markov chain](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markov_chain) for a "smart" chatbot

## Pre-reqs

- Python 3.12
- UV

## Environment Setup

`uv sync`

### .env

Minimal needed is an env var called `TOKEN` that contains the bot's token.

## Cog Docs

### [Markov](src/bingus/cogs/markov.py)

A markov chain is an incredibly simple model where it decides the next token
based on previous knowledge of what tokens the current token has been proceeded by.

#### Markov Commands

> **\*** = Requires being bot owner

- `/markov`: Make bingus try and reply to a prompt passed, use this to bypass the 80% change that bingus
  usually has to reply
- `/scan_history`*: Scan the history of the current channel and add it to the chain. Since Bingus only learns
  from*new\* messages while he's active, you may need to do this when restarting him. This command can take a while depending on the number of messages.
- `/dump_chain`\*: Dumps the entire underlying markov chain as a JSON file and sends it
- `/load_chain`\*: Loads a markov chain JSON (as generated by `/dump_chain`) additively
- `/weights`: Dump the weights of the specified token to other tokens

#### Markov Config

- `REPLY_CHANNELS`: A _comma-delimited_ list of channel IDs that the bot should have
  have a chance to reply to messages in. The bot still learns from all channels in realtime, but
  these channels it'll have an 80% of replying to any message

- `BRAIN_FILE`: Path to file where the chain will be persisted. This file will automatically be created
  if it doesn't exist already. The file itself is msgpack compressed with brotli,
  so it's recommended to give it a `msgpackz` extension. By default it will be set to `$PWD/brain.msgpackz`

## Adding Cogs

To start, you can run `poetry run add_cog`.

Follow the steps and you'll get a new cog in `src/bingus/cogs`. Here is where you can add
commands, event listeners, etc.

See the file generated for some simple examples, review the [PyCord docs](https://guide.pycord.dev/introduction) for more help and information.

### Utilities

#### Requiring Owner

To require the calling user to be a bot owner for slash commands, you can
use [permissions.require_owner](src/bingus/lib/permissions.py). Simply put this as
a decorator **above** the slash command one like so:

```py
from ..lib.permissions import require_owner

class MyCog(discord.commands.Cog):
  @require_owner
  @commands.slash_command()
  async def hello_owner(self, ctx: discord.ApplicationContext):
      await ctx.respond("Hello Owner!")
```

This will print an ephemeral error message to all non-owner users and "Hello Owner!" otherwise.

### Best Practices

Generally you'll want to make all state, config, etc. locallized to your cog file. That
way we can easily disable it if needed and nothing will break.

#### Cog Config

For simplicity we'll just use env vars for config.

Try to documents these options within this README file under the [The individual cogs docs](#cog-docs).
Create a third-level heading with your cog's name, and a link to its source code.

#### Formatting

Try to run `poetry run format` every-so-often to format your code.
